---
layout: page
title: analysis of Major Powers Throughout the Year
author: Joseph Chack-On
---
Considering the wealth of information that the Egyptian Gazette is as a newspaper covering everything from local news to stocks and shares over the entire year finding a question to ask about the paper proved difficult. Starting into the serial question I looked upon repeating elements in the format of the newspaper within my personal week and the subjects that these sections covered. While most of this was either a section dedicated to one thing as a pass time or business relevant information, there was another section that piqued my interest. That was the section frequently visited by ambassadors meeting and military naval generals stories. These stories tend to look at major events that where being played out elsewhere in the world. However I was closed minded and initially started a serial question about the admirals and generals query to show what type of business they where conducting. This was interesting at this point as ships with admirals in my personal week of the newspaper was apparent. It would also help give an idea as to how much the people of Alexandria cared about foreign military movements.
This attempt at querying was an overall failure because for some articles there would be mention of multiple high rankers from a single nation simply because it was the number of people that were involved in that business or event. It didn't answer the question at all of why would the people of Alexandria care about these military men. Then upon using the query for looking at texts such as //placeName[contains(.,'general')] it became more clear that these articles all had to do with what was going on with one of the big nations such as Russia. An example of such an article was over relations between Russia and Japan during my week of June where peace conditions were being reached. Finding information about admirals and generals would prove to be an ineffective way of using the Egyptian Gazette primarily because it didn't say anything about the citizens of Alexandria. To add to this the use of such high ups in the military did not explain foreign affairs properly to me as it would leave out articles about ambassadors or representatives in articles that were right next to these same articles that were brought up in my project query.
As however with almost any military with a leadership though it became apparent through using XPATH and a closer look at why they were being talked about it was usually because of the nation they were under. The most repeating nations that would then be covered were the United States, Russia, France, and finally Japan. Britain could have also been on this but because the newspaper didn't cover anything outside of some interesting news bit regarding the royal family or some other popular news scandal to interest readers was fruitless for the question that I was asking for this analysis. Since this was a few years before the first world war it was interesting to see the current major powers in the world at the time interacting with each other. Especially since from the viewpoint of Alexandria these events are being taken place overseas in places that would have nothing to do with Alexandria.
Structurally the majority of the querying that was done was looking at the third pages of most days as that would be the section where most foreign affairs, and government actions would be expressed in the paper. The final serial question then became from this revision why did the Egyptian Gazette pay so much attention to these four nation; France, United States, Russia, and France? If so for what reason would covering these events concerning these nations outside of Alexandria so important?
 Since there are four different nations I then had to set up a different query searches for each individual nation. First was finding the articles where key words of the four nations are mentioned. This was to look into where these nations would be talked about the most. For most of the querying to answer this question //placeName[contains(.,'nation')] which finds the times when the nation that replaces the place name nation in the XPATH is mentioned. This would then be used towards a graph depicting throughout the year when articles about that nation was most popular or currently occurring in the Egyptian Gazette. Upon looking at the articles themselves would then reveal why that nation would be so popular during the time period. This was to be done through a graph of the entire year counting the number of times a nation was talked about for that month. Observing this graph it is possible to see overlapping time multiple nations would be talked about at the same time, these instances would correlate to an article where both nations would be involved in some sort of event. During the June issue for example showed how Russia and Japan where having a difficult time negotiating a type of agreement. These being followed up with accounts of events concerning these issues.
 Besides tracking the rise and fall of popularity for a nation, there was also taking the number of times each nation would be talked about throughout the year. This demographic would be put into a pie chart showing the percentage of how much out of the year these four would be talked about. This would be used with querying the counts of each time the word of one of the four nations appeared. these key words would be simply the different versions each nation could be called in an article.
 Overall I would say the difficulties of this analysis would have to be finding a question in which the Egyptian Gazette can answer through querying the xml files that the entire class has come together to make. This is because of the selection that the Egyptian Gazette has for its readers. As for life in Alexandria the Egyptian Gazette is a wealth of information about the people and their life in Alexandria. From the analysis of the paper through my serial question it would seem that some concern was brought to mind about foreign countries that influence the entire world interacting and possibly taking giant moves politically towards each other. This would explain some of the events leading up to the first world war that starts ten years from the time of this newspaper. Most notably the talks about naval movements and articles about generals that originally piqued my interest begin to show why these articles would be of notice to the people of Alexandra.
